Awards-Oscar
The Academy Awards, also officially and popularly known as the Oscars, are awards for artistic and technical merit in the film industry. Given annually, the awards are an international recognition of excellence in cinematic achievements as assessed by the Academy's voting membership.

In this analysis, I looked into The Academy Awards Database, recorded of past Academy Award winners and nominees between 1927 and 2022. image This analysis looks to answer the following questions: Do the Academy Awards reflect the diversity of Foreign films or are the #OscarsSoWhite? Which actor/actress has received the most awards? Which film has received the most nominations/ awards? Do user ratings affect the likelihood of a film winning in the “Best Picture” category? Will the most popular film win “Best Picture” in a given yearimage

Data Analysis – Understanding the Oscar Awards dataset

To gain a better understanding of the overall structure and quality of the dataset, the following actions are performed: First,I read the CSV file “the_oscar_award.csv” ,Then, I get an overview of the numerical properties of the dataset and assess the overall quality of the data (for identifying any outliers, or skewness in the distribution):Next, we get an overview of the data’s metadata such as data size, and data types to assess the overall data structure,Finally, we check for missing data: Cleaning the Oscar Awards dataset(Once we understand the dataset, we continue to perform the following steps to ensure that the data is free of errors, inconsistencies, and missing values). For display purposes, a new column was created “filmy, " a combination of the film name and the ceremony year,Next, we analyzed how many winners (in any category) by splitting the dataset into winners and non-winners and displayed the winners only:In total, we have 2125 winners that won an Oscar category. And answers all questions.
